# Simple and multiple linear regression

## This project consists of the application of linear regression of data from different datasets, to obtain the prediction of the desired target variable.

### Simple linear regression:

In the first example of the simple regression I worked with the Seaborn "Tips" dataset, this dataset contains data on: tip, bill total, sex, smoker and size, of a bar, I chose this dataset because it is very popular and simple to analyze.
In this case the variable I wanted to predict is "tips", so the first thing I did was analyze the dataset. I started by visualizing how the data is distributed, separating it by "sex" and "smoker", because I thought that by separating it this way I could obtain more information regarding how these variables interact with the others. I also made a correlation graph to take into account in the future.
From all this I concluded that the variables "sex" and "smoker" do not influence "tips", because there is no significant increase or decrease in "tips" generated by the variables.
According to the correlation graph "total_bill" is the variable that most influences "tips" so I decided to create the linear regression model posing how "total_bill" affects "tips".
In the graph you can see that there is a positive relationship between both and you can also see the prediction of the model.

### Multiple linear regression:

In the second example of the multiple regression, work with the "Insurance" dataset, this dataset contains medical information about your patients such as: age, sex, bmi, smoker, children, region, charges.
In this case the variable I wanted to predict is "charges", so the first thing I did was analyze the dataset. I started by visualizing how the data is distributed by separating it by "sex", "smoker" and "region" because I thought that by separating it this way I could obtain more information regarding how these variables interact with the others. I also made a correlation graph to take into account in the future.
From all this I concluded that the variable "sex" and "region" do not influence "charges", because there is no significant increase or decrease in "charges" generated by the variables.
According to my analysis "bmi", "age" and "smoker" are the variables that most influence "charges", so I decided to create the linear regression model posing how these variables affect "charges".
The model was trained with all the data and it can be seen that the r-squared error was low, and also that the residual graph, although it shows some variation in the data, the error is not that significant.
However, I must clarify that if I had modified the dataset I could have obtained better results. If I had trained the model only with data from elderly people, high body mass index, and smokers, the model could be much more accurate.
I say this because in the graphs of interrelation between variables it seemed like the older the age, the higher the BMI, and if you are a smoker, there is an increase in the charges variable.
​

